[MUSIC]
>> Kyle Simpson: Now this next
exercise that I'm gonna give you,
rather than having you type some stuff.
I want you to go ahead and
[COUGH] rather than copying 9.html over.
[COUGH] I've already provided
you in your directory a 10.html.
So I want you to open up 10.html.
>> Speaker 2: Kyle.
>> Kyle Simpson: Yes?
>> Speaker 2: There is a question from
David W., how well does this scale with
hundreds or thousands of concurrent users.
>> Kyle Simpson: Web sockets are designed
to scale fantastically well and
so is node.
But you do not scale them in quite the
same way as you scale normal concurrency
server with concurrent
AJAX types of requests.
I'm not really a front
end ops sort of guy.
So I can't really speak to
the exact server configurations.
But I know that essentially you set up
a pool of web socket endpoint servers.
Kind of like a load balancing farm,
but specifically tuned for
web sockets connections.
And so you can get somewhere in
the neighborhood of 10 to 15,000
concurrent web socket connections on the
same box if you have a pretty meaty box.
So that means if you need to have 100,000
concurrent web socket connections,
you're gonna need 10 servers in that farm.
And you have a little round robin thing
that farms them out to these web sockets.
But you establish,
when I'm a user and I connect,
I establish a persistent connection to
one of those web sockets endpoints.
And then those things usually then turn
around to make an internal connection back
to your application server
either with web sockets or
some other communication technology.
But that's how, roughly speaking,
I understand that we did it when we did it
at scale at the game
company that I worked at.
We had about 60 million people
on the game at any given time.
So they had a server farm of 200 something
servers running or something like that.
[COUGH]
>> Kyle Simpson: [COUGH] Excuse me.
All right, so 10.html,
you should notice that it's gonna
have a couple of extra things in it.
I didn't want you to have to
write some of this code, but
there is here in line 47 some
code that you are gonna write.
But then let's not deal with 10.html for
a moment, let's take 9.server.
Go ahead and save that as 10.server.
>> Kyle Simpson: Cuz I do want
you to write this part as well.
[COUGH] And essentially what
we're going to do, this is gonna
up the creepiness factor of what we've
been building which should be kind of fun.
What we're gonna build here for
looking at the html file,
you'll notice I have this little div
element here that I call spy_marker.
And it's a little four by four
pixel element that's colored blue.
And it's just a div in our page,
it's absolutely positioned.
So what we've done is we've set
ourselves up with the mousemove command.
And we're listening,
by the way we're gonna pull in jQuery,
so I'm going to show you how to
load jQuery in just a moment.
You'll add jQuery by adding in that script
tag, but that's already there for you.
I'll show you how we enable that on
the server side in just a moment.
[COUGH] But what we're going to do here
is [COUGH] every time the mouse moves,
I want for you to wire up.
Write a line or two of code here for
you to send the XY coordinate,
the evt.pageX and
the evt.pageY coordinate.
I want you to send those
coordinates off to the server.
And then what I want you
to do on the server, so
you can call that event name whatever
you want, you might call it spy.
But then I want you to come
over here to the server and
I want you to listen for that event.
So, for instance, if you had called
it spy, I want you to listen for
the spy event.
[COUGH]
And
you might get an x and
a y coordinate, or however you do it.
And I want you to broadcast that back
out to the other connected users.
>> Kyle Simpson: The other thing we're
gonna do is we need to set ourselves up
an exception to our routing
roles that allows us to do
static file serving of these helper
utilities like the jQuery.js.
So I'm gonna say else if [COUGH]
reg.url === /jquery.js.
Then I want you to go ahead and
do a static file surf.
>> Kyle Simpson: [COUGH]
>> Kyle Simpson: So
what you need to do is write this line
of code that allows you to listen,
all right, allows you to emit the x and
y coordinates off to the server.
>> Kyle Simpson: And I'll give you two or
three minutes to do that.
>> Kyle Simpson: All right,
if we are to attempt to write line 47.
You should have come up with
something roughly similar to line 47.
I'm gonna call socket.emit, my name of
my event which I decided to call spy.
I'm gonna pass along the page X and the
page Y coordinates of the mouse cursor.
That should already start
to feel little bit creepy.
[LAUGH] But now if we go to our command
line we stop the 9.server instance and
we start up 10.server instance.
>> Kyle Simpson: [COUGH] And
then we load up 10 in our browsers.
>> Kyle Simpson: Now all of a sudden as I,
uh-oh, something must not be working.
>> Kyle Simpson: We double check,
what did I do wrong?
>> Kyle Simpson: [COUGH]
>> Kyle Simpson: Did
it not load correctly?
>> Kyle Simpson: No, it loaded correctly.
>> Speaker 3: When jQuery was loading.
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> Kyle Simpson: I thought so.
>> Speaker 3: Is it you have
a overwriting what you expect to.
>> Kyle Simpson: I'm not listening for
the spy event yet, that's the problem.
I forgot that we had to do that,
sorry about that.
We have to listen for the spy event
from the server obviously and
call our spy function.
So now when I refresh the page,
you should start to see.
Come on, what's it not doing right?
The beauties of live coding, right?
>> Kyle Simpson: I know what's wrong,
okay.
We gotta come back to our server,
because my HTML was assuming
an object with both properties in it.
And I was trying to send
them as two separate ones.
So it's easy to fix, we just send it
along as x and y as y, sorry about that.
[COUGH] So if we stop our server and
restart it,
hopefully that's the final bug.
>> Kyle Simpson: And now as you can see,
as I move my mouse cursor on the right,
I'm spying on the person's
mouse position in the left.
And the same is true over here as
I move the mouse cursor around,
you can see where it
moves the mouse cursor.